---
layout: post
title:  "Version 0.3.0 Is Coming"
date:   2016-02-07 12:00:00 +0100
author:
  name: Oskar Wickström
  url: https://wickstrom.tech
categories: news
comments: true
---

Oden 0.3.0 is soon to be released and it will bring the new syntax, a new CLI
and some much needed language features.

## The Brand New Syntax

Probably the biggest change in 0.3.0 is the move away from the S-expression
syntax. The [User Guide](/user-guide/) is already updated for the new syntax
so check that out. A post on the rationale behind changing the syntax might
appear later on.

## New CLI

The old command-line tool `odenc` has been renamed to `oden` and there's some
new commands in it.

* `oden build` - same as running just the old `odenc` command without any
  arguments.
* `oden lint <file>` - type check, warnings, etc.
* `oden run <file>` - run a file without compiling separately (must be a main
  package like `main` or `foo/bar/main`).

Much of the focus here is to lower the barrier for newcomers - it should feel
easy and fun to pick up Oden.

## Language Features

Oden 0.3.0 will bring some language features that just got to be there.

* Blocks
* Slices
* Tuples
* Structs

There's still a bunch of stuff missing but it should be done before `0.3.0`.

## Vim Plugin

There’s a Vim plugin embryo that’s pretty usable already. It requires Oden
`0.3.*`. Go pick it up at [github.com/oden-lang/vim-oden](
https://github.com/oden-lang/vim-oden).

### Features

* `:make` to run the linter.
* Standard stuff such as `!oden run %` to run the current file. There may be
  a Vim command for this later, e.g. `:OdenRun`.
* Syntastic lint checker.

## Sublime Plugin

Also, a Sublime plugin is taking form. Like the Vim plugin it requires Oden
`0.3.*`. Go download it [on GitHub](https://github.com/oden-lang/sublime-oden).
