---
layout: post
title:  "0.3.0 Is Out!"
date:   2016-05-14 12:00:00 +0100
categories: news
comments: true
---

I've been working on a number of features the last couple of months. All are
not done yet, but it's time to release something even though it's experimental.
Most of the new features have been available in the 0.3.0-alpha\* releases in
the Playground, so you might have seen some of them already. Please try this
new version out and report any bugs or problems.

## Known Limitations / Future Improvements

These are some things that I know don't work very well and that should be
improved/implemented next. If you find more please report on GitHub. Any help
is appreciated!

### Record Extension

Record extension is not supported yet. You can only create record values
using the `{ field1 = value1, field2 = value2, ..., fieldN = valueN }`
literal. An extension syntax like the one in Elm or PureScript would be nice to
have.

### Polymorphic Method Aliases

Protocol methods cannot be "aliased" if the alias is polymorphic. The
following code cannot be compiled yet:

{% highlight go %}
package main

protocol Foo(f) {
  Bar : f -> int
}

alias = Foo::Bar

impl Foo(int) {
  Bar(n) = n + 1
}

main() = {
  println(alias(1))
}
{% endhighlight %}

Directly referring to the method works:

{% highlight go %}
package main

protocol Foo(f) {
  Bar : f -> int
}

impl Foo(int) {
  Bar(n) = n + 1
}

main() = {
  println(Foo::Bar(1))
}
{% endhighlight %}

### Unqualified Method References

Currently one must qualify method references, like `Foo::Bar` in the example
above. It would be nice if the compiler could accept just `Bar` as long as it's
unambigous. However, I think this works for now.

### Various Protocol Validations

There's probably a bunch of cases around protocols that should have validation
to make sure they're used correctly.

### Protocols for Operator Overloading

Oden operators should be overloaded using protocols. No work has been done on
this yet but I really look forward to getting it done!

## Trying It Out

To run Oden you can either download [a pre-built distribution from
GitHub](https://github.com/oden-lang/oden/releases/tag/0.3.0) or just try it
out in your browser at the [Oden
Playground](https://playground.oden-lang.org/).
